# Campaign 2, Adventure 10

November 16, 2019

## To the Mountains

After awakening from a long rest, the party sets out at dusk. Fantasmyr plays a song and grants the party Inspiration once again.

Traveling stealthily with Xarzith at the helm, the group heads toward some mountains in the distance. Within a few hours, the party draws closer. And as they approach, they can see the peaks are dark and foreboding, and there seems to be a store brewing among them. But something about them draws Xarzith in; she feels she is meant to be there.

Fantasmyr can tell that it will take another one-half to three-quarters of a day to get there, so the band decides to take another long rest.

The party wakes up around 1 in the afternoon and resumes its journey, but of course not before Fantasmyr plays another tune to inspire everyone again.

## A Close Call

As the gang crosses the final expanse to the mountains, Plata Pusi notices a mound of snow in the distance. Further inspection reveals it to actually be a hole that has been recently excavated. The group soon realizes that several identical mounds cover the ground in front of them.

The adventurers carefully make their way past, taking care to not get too close to any of them. From one of openings they notice a sudden movement and manage to catch a slug-like creature retreat into it. It's something they've heard about before- not actually a beast but an elemental, a Rime Worm, that is surrounded by a ring of Ice Death. And where there is a small Rime Worm, there is always a much larger mother nearby.

The group wisely choose to make an effort to go around the series of burrows, and it continues traveling for four more hours.

## Journey to the Center of the World

As the group gets closer to the mountain, it feels the temperature drop drastically and the air grow thin, reminiscent of the emptiness of space.

Finally the gang reaches the foot of the mountain, and as they begin to climb it, Dora quickly notices two boulders slightly obscuring an opening that looks like it leads into the mountainside. Fantasmyr briefly investigates inside using his Dark Vision and sees that the hole is the entrance to a long tunnel that cuts deep into the bowels of the mountain.

With that, Xarzith uses Dancing Light to illuminate the path ahead, and the crew enters stealthily with Tag-a-Long in the lead, sneaking ahead at the edge of the light's radius.

The heroes venture further and further into the void, and after a while they begin to notice a low rumble- first a faint hum and then growing to a persistent and omnipresent bass, both audible and palpable. When it seems the adventurers have all but gone insane from the constant resonance, they suddenly reach a spiral staircase- perhaps they are too relieved at the discovery to realize how strange and out-of-place it is.

Fantasmyr and Tag-a-Long use their Night Vision to perform some reconnaissance around the staircase, and they discern a purple glow. As the group approaches, it sees the source of the glow: a crystal mounted on the stone wall with an iron sconce. Plata Pusi can detect that there is a light spell emanating from the crystal. This beacon marks the entrance to a weathered stone spiral staircase.

## Ascension

As Fantasmyr starts to stealthily ascend the steps, Tag-a-Long pulls the crystal out of its case, and Plata Pusi is shocked to feel the magic drastically fade. With a silent reprimand, Fantasmyr puts the crystal back in its place, and the magic returns. As she passes it, Dora notices small Sylvan letters inscribed in the iron holder: "Dungeon.”

The group proceeds up and around the stairs, and soon it sees a second light- another light crystal, but this time a green one. The word on the sconce is "Foyer.” The party continues upward and soon finds an orange light- "Garden.” And after the orange is a blue light, which says "Observatory.”

Perhaps drawn to it by some mysterious force, Fantasmyr reaches out to touch it. But when he sets his hand on the stone upon which it is mounted, he realizes the wall is fake behind the sconce. Tag-a-Long reaches out and proceeds straight through the rock! Plata Pusi realizes this is the effect of an Illusion spell.

## The World Beyond

The adventurers each pass through the wall into the space behind it, and as their eyes adjust to the faint light of of their new surroundings, they realize they are standing in a corner of a vast room. It is lined with massive windows, which they presume to be floor to ceiling: They extend far into the darkness above them, but no end- or ceiling for that matter- is discernible.

As she enters, Xarzith feels a sense of closure. This is where she is meant to be. This is where it started, and this is where it ends.

Suddenly a streak of light flashes in front of the group, and the ground begins to shake violently. There is a low growl- but it is organic, coming from some sort of beast. Xarzith can actually discern meaning- the dialect is an amalgamation of Draconic and Celestial.

And as it grows louder, it sounds more and more like a lion. And from the opposite side of the cavernous room a gigantic creature emerges from the shadows. First the glowing red eyes, then one massive paw, and then another. A magnificent, pearlescent mane engulfs a fearsome visage, and its entire body is ghostly white. The more and more the adventurers gaze into its eyes, the less and less they see, for its crimson eyes are like endless, swirling galaxies, each with a million stars.

## Ally or Foe?

In preparation for an encounter, Tails creates a Minor Illusion- a copy of the beast- and casts it to one far corner of the room and then unleashes Dancing Lights into another.

Xarzith tries to talk to the creature, and it seems to trust her but not the others. She moves closer to it and uses Dancing Lights to illuminate herself.

As she follows behind, Dora is able to get a better glimpse of the animal. Its mane consists of a thousand points of bright light that connect to each other- constellations, one of the fallen stars. The sight is too much to behold, so she takes Blake up and escapes to the darkness of the height of the room.

Fantasmyr casts Mage Hand and holds Stardust out in the air to solicit a reaction from the creature. The Stardust actually glows a blue hue. Out of sheer curiosity and perhaps unbeknownst to themselves, both Tag-a-Long and Akmenos move slightly closer to the encounter.

When it sees Fantasmyr's blue Stardust, the creature seems to bow. Once it notices Tails's Illusion, however, it redirects its attention to it and begins to charge toward it. It even tries to attack it before it realizes it is fake. To contribute to the whole endeavor, Plata Pusi shoots a web 30 feet in front of himself.

## Hurtling through a Thousand Worlds

All the while, time seems to slow for Xarzith. Her surroundings fade away until she is alone with the creature, and she hears a voice say, "It's in your blood. Try to control it."

She tries to send a message: "Lend me your power.” The creature turns and gazes at her. It says to her in Draconic, "What blood is in you that can control a celestial like me?” Then, as if it suddenly realizes who is standing before it, it apologizes. "I'm sorry, my lord, I didn't realize it was you.”

Xarzith takes a step closer to it, and with that, the world returns around her.

Fantasmyr notices the light from his Stardust glow brighter and brighter, and near the feet of the lion there is a similar glow. He timidly approaches Xarzith, holds out the Stardust, and motions to her. The blue light at its feet begins to course around its legs, and they begin to engulf its body like flames. The lion backs aways slightly from the Stardust but stays near Xarzith.

## The Escalation

Suddenly a tall, hooded figure emerges from the opposite corner of the room. It looks humanoid, a male elf. His skin is copper-gold, and, unusual for an elf, his face is marked with deep wrinkles- the group can tell he has seen many days.

He pulls off his hood, and suddently, without warning, he draws a bow and fires. The arrow pierces the lion. Behind the elf's back emerge black, dragon-like wings with what looks like stars shimmering in them, and he takes flight.

Instinctively, Xarzith touches the lion. The world around her goes dark, and all goes silent. All she sees is the vastness of space and the passing stars. She feels at home, and deep inside, she feels connected with her ancestry and the source of all her magic: the Void Dragon, one of the strongest creatures that controls the astral plane itself. "Master, I will serve you, but you should know: There is great danger around. I did not fall on my own.”

She feels she can now call on an ally, a constellation under her command that she can summon. This entire time, the rest of the adventurers could only see Xarzith frozen in space and in time, with what looked like constellations swirling in her eyes.

Then she blinks, and she is back again. The lion has disappeared, and Fantasmyr's Stardust has been extinguished.

The group advances a level.
