# Campaign 2, Adventure 11

December 28, 2019

## Regrouping

As the galaxies that swirled in Xarzith's eyes disappear, the swirling clouds that enveloped the mountain are now only yellow and red.

Wondering what is taking her companions so long, Persephone decides to investigate the cave. As soon as she begins to make her way into it, however, she encounters Akmenos and Tails headed the opposite direction. After they inform her of what has happened in the cave, she proceeds inward, leaving them to care for the cart and horses.

Almost in disbelief at what she had been told, Persephone bounds up the spiral staircase over what seems to be a thousand steps, all the way up to the observatory. As soon as she enters the room and takes in the scene, she realizes everything Akmenos and Tails told her was true.

## A Cautious Exchange

Tag-a-Long examines the golden figure curiously, having never before seen such a tan man. He slowly looks over the group, and as Tag catches his eye, Tag huddles behind Xarzith. Dora hovers defensively over Xarzith.

As a strange glow emanates from her hands and hovers toward the golden man, Xarzith asks him, "Are you the one whom I've been searching for? Have we not met before?" Her Dancing Lights illuminate the man, revealing an aged figure with elven features, yellow-green skin, and a deep wisdom in his eyes. His eyes hold not pupils but rather infinite stars that appear to contain a galaxy of knowledge.

Fantasmyr reluctantly moves closer and brandishes the small vial of Stardust he has carried on his journey&mdash;perhaps it will bring him answers. But alas the Stardust remains the same.

Appearing intrigued by Xarzith's question, the stranger moves closer. With a flourish, he removes his hood and stares into Xarzith's face. "Perhaps we have met. What makes you special?"

"You came to my village long ago when I lived with the dragons," Xarzith replies.

Without missing a beat, the man notches and releases an arrow in a single motion, aiming at Fantasmyr's illusion of Leo. He seems unsurprised to see it pass right through.

Wondering how much the man knows about Leo, Xarzith performs an arcana check to ascertain what she can about constellations, moons, and the heavens.

It is revealed that there are three moons in this universe: a yellow moon, called Celena, which completes an orbit every month; a blue moon, called Hakate, which orbits annually; and a red moon, Arkmans, which cycles every season. Once every four years, the Trimoon is held, celebrating the alignment of all three moons, although in reality this phenomenon has only occurred twice in recorded history: once when the Calamity was settled and again in 1240 PC.

## More Celestial Threats

Suddenly a beam of yellow light cuts through the air, and a red light arcs from the opposite direction. They both make landfall near where Xarzith stands, ending in a brilliant salvo. As the smoke clears, a tiny, yellow rabbit with antlers and small wings is revealed from the red light. And out of the yellow light emerges a grotesque beast, multi-legged and wielding a frightening pair of claws&mdash;a gargantuan scorpion. An unsettling clicking sound fills the room as the giant arachnid taps its talons.

Tag-a-Long rushes toward the red light, Stardust in paw, but is confused as nothing happens. Blake suddenly flutters away toward the center of the room.

Plata Pusi watches as Xarzith dashes toward the scorpion. The color in her eyes begin to swirl, and they turn into galaxies once again as Leo appears. The scorpion seems to relax as its convulsive movements subside, and Xarzith feels a connection to it. She can feel that its intentions are not unlike her own: not always absolute but rather a constant struggle between virtue and a more diabolical presence. "Join me," she whispers. A palpable bond begins to develop between the two, and it seems to grow stronger, brighter.

Plata Pusi discharges a web that entangles Tag-a-Long and the golden elf.

An elven whisper echoes through the chamber, "Swift to defeat my enemy and swift death to those who have wronged me."

The jackrabbit suddenly twitches, appearing to be hurt, and begins to shiver. A wave of dread washes over Dora, Blake, and Tag-a-Long, but Tag shakes the feeling. The jackrabbit braces itself then charges toward Blake. Blake growls and narrowly dodges the attack. Astonished, the jackrabbit continues its pace even after missing its mark. Tag-a-Long moves toward it and tries to lull it to sleep. It resists, but Tag follows up with a surge of fire. The rabbit is hurt, and a child-like scream pierces the room.

Dora fires an arrow at the elven man, but his figure shifts to avoid it as if by an apparition of magic. His eyes narrow in amusement at the attempt.

Xarzith tries to call on Leo for help, but its resounding voice booms, "We do not share moons. I cannot help."

She then tries to chase the scorpion toward Fantasmyr, hoping he can tame it. But the scorpion attacks Fantasmyr and wounds him quite severely. Plata Pusi dashes toward Fantasmyr and rests two fingers on his shoulder. Suddenly Fantasmyr feels a renewed energy course through his veins.

Fantasmyr plants his feet, reaches down, and catapults Tag-a-Long toward the scorpion. Tag strikes the scorpion, who looks annoyed but not badly hurt. The Stardust in Tag-a-Long's hand begins to glow and Fantasmyr, noticing the change, approaches the scorpion with his Mage Hand and Stardust.

The elf draws his bow once more and attempts to shoot the jackrabbit. But in his attempt to avoid hitting Blake, he misses. Resigned, the man's eyes also turn to galaxies and, with a flash of red light, another creature appears&mdash;this time a large, white and gray speckled owl. The owl rushes forward in a cloud of feathers and attacks the jackrabbit, and the jackrabbit whimpers in pain.

Persephone attempts to heal Fantasmyr more, but he appears only slightly improved.

Xarzith, resentful of the scorpion's actions, attacks. It reacts violently, slashing at Tag-a-Long and Xarzith with its claws and trying to pierce her with its lethal stinger.

Fantasmyr shoves his Mage Hand into the scorpion's face and unleashes a yellow glow that engulfs much of its body. It retreats away from Fantasmyr, shying away from the glowing Stardust.

Persophene attempts to heal Fantasmyr once again and also proceeds to attack the scorpion. But before she can make contact, Tag-a-Long casts a sleeping spell, and the scorpion falls asleep instantly.

Exhausted, jackrabbit lunges into Dora's lap, and Tag-a-Long puts it to sleep.

As she stares at the helpless creature finally resting peacefully in her arms, Dora comes to her senses. Amidst all the chaos, Dora resolves to stop the violence. Remarkably, she persuades the golden elf not to kill the animals, as long as her party helps him intercept their escape and return them to their place in the sky.

## Truce

Persophone speaks to the man in Elvish&mdash;his name is Faeren.

Xarzith asks him why the animals must return.

Faeren sighs. Suddenly a blue light streaks through the air, and a turtle appears. It's quickly followed by a yellow beam, which reveals a bull. "The celestials you see before you here today are merely half of the twelve who guard the four empyrean gates. Without them, there is nothing guarding the gates and securing them from the desolation beyond."

Fantasmyr shows Faeren the Stardust to see if it sparks any recollection. Xarzith tells him about how the Stardust was obtained from the elderly woman on the lake and how the people around it disappeared.

Meanwhile Leo paces around the room curiously, acting almost like a housecat. For some reason, he seems enthralled with Akmenos, who had since reentered the chamber. Akmenos is amused. He unsuccessfully tries to shoo him away; Leo pounces playfully at him instead.

Gesturing at the giant feline, Faeren asks Xarzith whether she used the Stardust to tame Leo.

"No, I spoke to him," she replies.

"Show me."

Xarzith addresses the scorpion, and its spiny exoskeleton seems to kowtow to her. The creature appears subdued, and it bonds with Xarzith. She would later say she heard it whisper a promise to follow her to the end.

Seemingly out of nowhere, two broad wings unfold from her back. Her companions reel in shock; their minds race, wondering whether the wings are new or if they have remained concealed this entire time. The expansive wings are like dark, coruscating mirrors, resembling two portals to another world with stars and constellations beyond.

As Xarzith cranes her neck to peer at her newfangled appendages, Faeren catches a glimpse of a dark, shimmering scale on the side of her neck. He is taken aback. He kneels before her and utters, "I had not realized you were the daughter of the Great One. It is very rare for those of your bloodline to remain on this material plane."

The Great One… The name seems familiar to Xarzith. Yes, she had read about it in one of the tomes she borrowed from the bookstore in Tabula Rasa.

She performs a history check, and she is able to recall more.

The Great One had many names and many forms, but the most common was known as the Dragon of the Void. It was but one of the dragons that ruled the heavens, but it was the most fearsome, laying claim to the vacuum of space with the power to create or consume entire solar systems.

It disappeared along with the other dragons during the Great Calamity when they were banished by the gods, who did not want anything that could possibly harm humankind to remain.

But the Void Dragon managed to survive, and it now resides beyond the material plane, between the realms.

Xarzith takes the rabbit in her arms and bonds with it, forming a third constellation affinity: Leo is tenacious but sometimes unpredictable; Scorpio is clever but also mischievous; Virgo reminds Xarzith of her old nature, guileless but a victim of the winds of circumstance.

There are now six surreal animals in the room; in addition to Xarzith’s three, there are another three with Faeren: Libra the owl, Aquarius the turtle, and Taurus the bull.

As Scorpio plays with Taurus in the background, Virgo explains there are others, like a sheep, a horse, and more.

Xarzith asks her three celestials why they left their posts.

Scorpio takes pause to glance up and throw its pincers up in a shrugging motion.

"I just didn't feel like being there anymore." Leo replies nonchalantly.

Virgo exclaims, "It's getting dangerous, you know!" Then whispers, "It's even difficult to keep these two in check…"

Sensing something is awry with his fellow guardian-keeper, Faeren raises a hand toward Xarzith. And she feels her long discordant spirit in harmony once again.
